@article{Derrien2007, abstract = {UNLABELLED: AutoGRAPH is an
interactive web server for automatic multi-species comparative genomics
analyses based on personal datasets or pre-inserted public datasets.
This program automatically identifies conserved segments (CS) and
breakpoint regions, assesses the conservation of marker/gene order
between organisms, constructs synteny maps for two to three species and
generates high-quality, interactive displays facilitating the
identification of chromosomal rearrangements. AutoGRAPH can also be used
for the integration and comparison of several types of genomic resources
(meiotic maps, radiation hybrid maps and genome sequences) for a single
species, making AutoGRAPH a versatile tool for comparative genomics
analysis. AVAILABILITY:
http://genoweb.univ-rennes1.fr/tom\_dog/AutoGRAPH/. SUPPLEMENTARY
INFORMATION: A description of the algorithm and additional information
are available at
http://genoweb.univ-rennes1.fr/tom\_dog/AutoGRAPH/Tutorial.php.}, author
= {Derrien, Thomas and Andre, Catherine and Galibert, Francis and Hitte,
Christophe}, doi = {10.1093/bioinformatics/btl618}, issn = {1367-4811
(Electronic)}, journal = {Bioinformatics (Oxford, England)}, keywords =
{Algorithms,Base Sequence,Chromosome Mapping,Computer Graphics,Database
Management Systems,Databases, Genetic,Information Storage and
Retrieval,Internet,Molecular Sequence Data,Sequence Alignment,Sequence
Analysis, DNA,Software,User-Computer Interface,methods}, language =
{eng}, month = {feb}, number = {4}, pages = {498--499}, pmid =
{17145741}, title = {AutoGRAPH: an interactive web server for automating
and visualizing comparative genome maps.}, volume = {23}, year = {2007}
}
