@article{Derrien2012b, abstract = {The human genome contains many
thousands of long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs). While several studies have
demonstrated compelling biological and disease roles for individual
examples, analytical and experimental approaches to investigate these
genes have been hampered by the lack of comprehensive lncRNA annotation.
Here, we present and analyze the most complete human lncRNA annotation
to date, produced by the GENCODE consortium within the framework of the
ENCODE project and comprising 9277 manually annotated genes producing
14,880 transcripts. Our analyses indicate that lncRNAs are generated
through pathways similar to that of protein-coding genes, with similar
histone-modification profiles, splicing signals, and exon/intron
lengths. In contrast to protein-coding genes, however, lncRNAs display a
striking bias toward two-exon transcripts, they are predominantly
localized in the chromatin and nucleus, and a fraction appear to be
preferentially processed into small RNAs. They are under stronger
selective pressure than neutrally evolving sequences-particularly in
their promoter regions, which display levels of selection comparable to
protein-coding genes. Importantly, about one-third seem to have arisen
within the primate lineage. Comprehensive analysis of their expression
in multiple human organs and brain regions shows that lncRNAs are
generally lower expressed than protein-coding genes, and display more
tissue-specific expression patterns, with a large fraction of
tissue-specific lncRNAs expressed in the brain. Expression correlation
analysis indicates that lncRNAs show particularly striking positive
correlation with the expression of antisense coding genes. This GENCODE
annotation represents a valuable resource for future studies of
lncRNAs.}, author = {Derrien, Thomas and Johnson, Rory and Bussotti,
Giovanni and Tanzer, Andrea and Djebali, Sarah and Tilgner, Hagen and
Guernec, Gregory and Martin, David and Merkel, Angelika and Knowles,
David G and Lagarde, Julien and Veeravalli, Lavanya and Ruan, Xiaoan and
Ruan, Yijun and Lassmann, Timo and Carninci, Piero and Brown, James B
and Lipovich, Leonard and Gonzalez, Jose M and Thomas, Mark and Davis,
Carrie A and Shiekhattar, Ramin and Gingeras, Thomas R and Hubbard, Tim
J and Notredame, Cedric and Harrow, Jennifer and Guigo, Roderic}, doi =
{10.1101/gr.132159.111}, issn = {1549-5469 (Electronic)}, journal =
{Genome research}, keywords = {Alternative Splicing,Animals,Cell
Nucleus,Cluster Analysis,Databases, Genetic,Evolution,
Molecular,Exons,Gene Expression Profiling,Gene Expression
Regulation,Histones,Humans,Molecular Sequence Annotation,Open Reading
Frames,Organ Specificity,Primates,RNA Processing,
Post-Transcriptional,RNA Splice Sites,RNA, Long Noncoding,RNA,
Messenger,Selection, Genetic,Transcription,
Genetic,genetics,metabolism}, language = {eng}, month = {sep}, number =
{9}, pages = {1775--1789}, pmid = {22955988}, title = {The GENCODE v7
catalog of human long noncoding RNAs: analysis of their gene structure,
evolution, and expression.}, volume = {22}, year = {2012} }
