@article{Derrien2007a, abstract = {The identification of dog genes and
their accurate localization to chromosomes remain a major challenge in
the postgenomics era. The 132 annotated canine genes with human
orthologs remaining in the unassembled part (chrUnknown) of the dog
sequence assembly (CanFam1) are of limited use for candidate gene
approaches or comparative mapping studies. We used a two-step
comparative analysis to infer a canine chromosomal interval for
localization of the chrUn genes. We first constructed a human-dog
synteny map, using 14,456 gene-based comparative anchors. We then mapped
the 132 chrUn genes onto the reference (human) synteny map and
identified the corresponding, orthologous segment on the canine map,
based on conserved gene order. Our results show that 110 chrUn genes
could be localized to short intervals on 18 dog chromosomes, whereas 22
genes remained assigned to 2 possible intervals. We extended this
comparative analysis to multiple species, using the chimpanzee, mouse,
and rat genome sequences. This made it possible to narrow down the
intervals concerned and to increase the number of canine chrUn genes
with an inferred chromosome location to 115. This study demonstrates
that dog chromosomal intervals for chrUn genes can be rapidly inferred,
using a reference species, and indicates that comparative strategies
based on larger numbers of species may be even more effective.}, author
= {Derrien, Thomas and Andre, Catherine and Galibert, Francis and Hitte,
Christophe}, doi = {10.1093/jhered/esm027}, issn = {0022-1503 (Print)},
journal = {The Journal of heredity}, keywords = {Animals,Chromosome
Mapping,Dogs,Genome,Humans,Species Specificity,genetics}, language =
{eng}, number = {5}, pages = {461--467}, pmid = {17573383}, title =
{Analysis of the unassembled part of the dog genome sequence:
chromosomal localization of 115 genes inferred from multispecies
comparative genomics.}, volume = {98}, year = {2007} }
