@article{Howald2012, abstract = {Within the ENCODE Consortium, GENCODE
aimed to accurately annotate all protein-coding genes, pseudogenes, and
noncoding transcribed loci in the human genome through manual curation
and computational methods. Annotated transcript structures were
assessed, and less well-supported loci were systematically,
experimentally validated. Predicted exon-exon junctions were evaluated
by RT-PCR amplification followed by highly multiplexed sequencing
readout, a method we called RT-PCR-seq. Seventy-nine percent of all
assessed junctions are confirmed by this evaluation procedure,
demonstrating the high quality of the GENCODE gene set. RT-PCR-seq was
also efficient to screen gene models predicted using the Human Body Map
(HBM) RNA-seq data. We validated 73% of these predictions, thus
confirming 1168 novel genes, mostly noncoding, which will further
complement the GENCODE annotation. Our novel experimental validation
pipeline is extremely sensitive, far more than unbiased transcriptome
profiling through RNA sequencing, which is becoming the norm. For
example, exon-exon junctions unique to GENCODE annotated transcripts are
five times more likely to be corroborated with our targeted approach
than with extensive large human transcriptome profiling. Data sets such
as the HBM and ENCODE RNA-seq data fail sampling of low-expressed
transcripts. Our RT-PCR-seq targeted approach also has the advantage of
identifying novel exons of known genes, as we discovered unannotated
exons in Ìƒ11% of assessed introns. We thus estimate that at least 18% of
known loci have yet-unannotated exons. Our work demonstrates that the
cataloging of all of the genic elements encoded in the human genome will
necessitate a coordinated effort between unbiased and targeted
approaches, like RNA-seq and RT-PCR-seq.}, author = {Howald, Cedric and
Tanzer, Andrea and Chrast, Jacqueline and Kokocinski, Felix and Derrien,
Thomas and Walters, Nathalie and Gonzalez, Jose M and Frankish, Adam and
Aken, Bronwen L and Hourlier, Thibaut and Vogel, Jan-Hinnerk and White,
Simon and Searle, Stephen and Harrow, Jennifer and Hubbard, Tim J and
Guigo, Roderic and Reymond, Alexandre}, doi = {10.1101/gr.134478.111},
issn = {1549-5469 (Electronic)}, journal = {Genome research}, keywords =
{Computational Biology,Exons,Gene Expression Profiling,Genome,
Human,High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing,Humans,Introns,Molecular
Sequence Annotation,Open Reading Frames,RNA Isoforms,RNA,
Messenger,Reproducibility of Results,Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase
Chain Reaction,Sensitivity and
Specificity,Transcriptome,chemistry,genetics,methods}, language = {eng},
month = {sep}, number = {9}, pages = {1698--1710}, pmid = {22955982},
title = {Combining RT-PCR-seq and RNA-seq to catalog all genic elements
encoded in the human genome.}, volume = {22}, year = {2012} }
