@article{Orom2010, abstract = {The human genome contains thousands of
long noncoding RNAs (ncRNAs) transcribed from diverse genomic locations.
A large set of long ncRNAs is transcribed independent of protein-coding
genes. We have used the GENCODE annotation of the human genome to
identify 3019 long ncRNAs expressed in various human cell lines and
tissue. This set of long ncRNAs responds to differentiation signals in
primary human keratinocytes and is coexpressed with important regulators
of keratinocyte development. Depletion of a number of these long ncRNAs
leads to the repression of specific genes in their surrounding locus,
supportive of an activating function for ncRNAs. Using reporter assays,
we confirmed such activating function and show that such transcriptional
enhancement is mediated through the long ncRNA transcripts. Our studies
show that long ncRNAs exhibit functions similar to classically defined
enhancers, through an RNA-dependent mechanism.}, author = {Orom, U A and
Derrien, T and Guigo, R and Shiekhattar, R}, doi =
{10.1101/sqb.2010.75.058}, issn = {1943-4456 (Electronic)}, journal =
{Cold Spring Harbor symposia on quantitative biology}, keywords = {Cell
Differentiation,Conserved Sequence,Enhancer Elements, Genetic,Gene
Expression Regulation,Genome, Human,Humans,Keratinocytes,Molecular
Sequence Annotation,Open Reading Frames,RNA, Untranslated,Snail Family
Transcription Factors,Software,Transcription
Factors,genetics,metabolism}, language = {eng}, pages = {325--331}, pmid
= {21502407}, title = {Long noncoding RNAs as enhancers of gene
expression.}, volume = {75}, year = {2010} }
