@article{Derrien2012a, abstract = {There are over 350 genetically
distinct breeds of domestic dog that present considerable variation in
morphology, physiology, and disease susceptibility. The genome sequence
of the domestic dog was assembled and released in 2005, providing an
estimated 20,000 protein-coding genes that are a great asset to the
scientific community that uses the dog system as a genetic biomedical
model and for comparative and evolutionary studies. Although the canine
gene set had been predicted using a combination of ab initio methods,
homology studies, motif analysis, and similarity-based programs, it
still requires a deep annotation of noncoding genes, alternative
splicing, pseudogenes, regulatory regions, and gain and loss events.
Such analyses could benefit from new sequencing technologies (RNA-Seq)
to better exploit the advantages of the canine genetic system in
tracking disease genes. Here, we review the catalog of canine
protein-coding genes and the search for missing genes, and we propose
rationales for an accurate identification of noncoding genes though
next-generation sequencing.}, author = {Derrien, Thomas and Vaysse,
Amaury and Andre, Catherine and Hitte, Christophe}, doi =
{10.1007/s00335-011-9372-0}, issn = {1432-1777 (Electronic)}, journal =
{Mammalian genome : official journal of the International Mammalian
Genome Society}, keywords = {Animals,Base Sequence,Chromosome
Mapping,Dogs,Evolution, Molecular,Genetic Variation,Genome,Molecular
Sequence Annotation,Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide,Proteins,Sequence
Analysis, DNA,genetics}, language = {eng}, month = {feb}, number =
{1-2}, pages = {124--131}, pmid = {22076420}, title = {Annotation of the
domestic dog genome sequence: finding the missing genes.}, volume =
{23}, year = {2012} }
