@article{Faraut2007, abstract = {MOTIVATION: Genome maps are fundamental
to the study of an organism and essential in the process of genome
sequencing which in turn provides the ultimate map of the genome. The
increased number of genomes being sequenced offers new opportunities for
the mapping of closely related organisms. We propose here an algorithmic
formalization of a genome comparison approach to marker ordering.
RESULTS: In order to integrate a comparative mapping approach in the
algorithmic process of map construction and selection, we propose to
extend the usual statistical model describing the experimental data,
here radiation hybrids (RH) data, in a statistical framework that models
additionally the evolutionary relationships between a proposed map and a
reference map: an existing map of the corresponding orthologous genes or
markers in a closely related organism. This has concretely the effect of
exploiting, in the process of map selection, the information of marker
adjacencies in the related genome when the information provided by the
experimental data is not conclusive for the purpose of ordering. In
order to compute efficiently the map, we proceed to a reduction of the
maximum likelihood estimation to the Traveling Salesman Problem.
Experiments on simulated RH datasets as well as on a real RH dataset
from the canine RH project show that maps produced using the likelihood
defined by the new model are significantly better than maps built using
the traditional RH model. AVAILABILITY: The comparative mapping approach
is available in the last version of de Givry,S. et al. \[(2004)
Bioinformatics, 21, 1703-1704, www.inra.fr/mia/T/CarthaGene\], a free
(the LKH part is free for academic use only) mapping software in C++,
including LKH (Helsgaun,K. (2000) Eur. J. Oper. Res., 126, 106-130,
www.dat.ruc.dk/keld/research/LKH) for maximum likelihood computation.},
author = {Faraut, T and de Givry, S and Chabrier, P and Derrien, T and
Galibert, F and Hitte, C and Schiex, T}, doi =
{10.1093/bioinformatics/btl321}, issn = {1367-4811 (Electronic)},
journal = {Bioinformatics (Oxford, England)}, keywords =
{Algorithms,Chromosome Mapping,Computer Simulation,Evolution,
Molecular,Genetic Markers,Linkage Disequilibrium,Models, Genetic,Models,
Statistical,Sequence Analysis, DNA,Sequence Homology, Nucleic
Acid,Software,Species Specificity,genetics,methods}, language = {eng},
month = {jan}, number = {2}, pages = {e50--6}, pmid = {17237105}, title
= {A comparative genome approach to marker ordering.}, volume = {23},
year = {2007} }
