@article{Prouteau2019, abstract = {Canine oral melanoma is the first
malignancy of the oral cavity in dogs and is characterized by a local
invasiveness and a high metastatic propensity. A better knowledge of
genetic alterations is expected to improve management of this tumour.
Copy number alterations are known characteristics of mucosal melanomas
both in dogs and humans. The goal of this study was to explore the
prognostic value of somatic focal amplifications on chromosomes (Canis
Familiaris \[CFA\]) 10 and 30 in canine oral melanoma. The cohort
included 73 dogs with oral melanoma confirmed by histology, removed
surgically without adjuvant therapy and with a minimal follow-up of
6 months. Epidemiological, clinical and histological data were collected
and quantitative-PCR were performed on formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded
(FFPE) samples to identify specific focal amplifications. The 73 dogs
included in the study had a median survival time of 220 days. Focal
amplifications on CFA 10 and 30 were recurrent (49.3% and 50.7% of
cases, respectively) and CFA 30 amplification was significantly
associated with the amelanotic phenotype (P = .046) and high mitotic
index (MI; P = .0039). CFA 30 amplification was also linked to poor
prognosis (P = .0005). Other negative prognostic factors included
gingiva location (P = .003), lymphadenomegaly (P = .026), tumour
ulceration at diagnosis (P = .003), MI superior to 6 mitoses over 10
fields (P = .001) and amelanotic tumour (P = .029). In multivariate
analyses using Cox proportional hazards regression, CFA 30 amplification
(Hazard ratio \[HR\] = 2.08; P = .011), tumour location (HR = 2.20; P
= .005) and histological pigmentation (HR = 1.87; P = .036) were
significantly associated with shorter survival time. Focal amplification
of CFA 30 is linked to an aggressive subset and constitutes a new
prognostic factor.}, author = {Prouteau, Anais and Chocteau, Florian and
Brito, Clotilde and Cadieu, Edouard and Primot, Aline and Botherel,
Nadine and Degorce, Frédérique and Cornevin, Laurence and Lagadic, Marie
A. and Cabillic, Florian and Fornel‐Thibaud, Pauline and Devauchelle,
Patrick and Derrien, Thomas and Abadie, Jerome and André, Catherine and
Hédan, Benoît}, doi = {10.1111/vco.12536}, issn = {1476-5810}, journal =
{Veterinary and Comparative Oncology}, keywords = {chromosome
30,dog,focal amplification,oral melanoma,prognosis}, month = {sep},
pages = {vco.12536}, pmid = {31461207}, title = {Prognostic value of
somatic focal amplifications on chromosome 30 in canine oral melanoma},
url = {http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31461207
https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/vco.12536}, year =
{2019} }
